

Issues in Transition and Coexistence for TCP/IP to OSI  (1/2 day)

Dr. Marshall T. Rose


Overview

     The U.S. DoD Internet suite of protocols (commonly known as TCP/IP)
     is the de facto open (non-proprietary) standard for
     computer-communications in multi-vendor and multi-administration
     networks.  TCP/IP has enjoyed unprecedented success as the open
     systems solution of choice for inter-connecting networks and hosts.
     However based on international cooperative work, it is commonly
     acknowledged that protocols based on the Open Systems
     Interconnection (OSI) model and promulgated by the International
     Organization for Standardization (ISO) will eventually achieve
     dominance and enjoy even greater success than TCP/IP.

     Although previously an "academic" problem, the widespread
     investment in TCP/IP-based systems has made practical solutions to
     transition and coexistence an overwhelming concern:  organizations
     using TCP/IP protocols today will be less willing to adopt OSI
     protocols tomorrow unless interruption of production facilities is
     minimized and the underlying investment is protected.


What You Will Learn

     You will achieve a thorough understanding of the technology
     involved when interconnecting TCP/IP-based systems to OSI-based
     systems.


Syllabus

     - Motivation: the need for transition and coexistence

     - Background: concepts, terminology, and metrics of comparison

     - Protocol-based approaches: dual-stacks, application gateways, and
       transport gateways; discussion of existing implementations

     - Re-defining the problem: understanding the difference between
       transition and coexistence

     - Service-based approaches: transport-service bridges, and network
       tunnels; discussion of existing and planned implementations

     - Examples: scenarios for different environments; the DoD OSI
       transition plan


Who Should Attend

     This tutorial is intended for professionals interested in planning,
     implementing, or managing environments containing both TCP/IP and
     OSI implementations.  Although detailed knowledge of neither TCP/IP
     nor OSI is required, basic familiarity with both protocols suites
     is assumed.  No knowledge of protocol translation issues is
     required.


Speaker

     Marshall T. Rose is a Principal Software Engineer at The Wollongong
     Group where he works on OSI protocols and transition strategies.
     He is the principal implementor of the ISO Development Environment
     (ISODE), an openly available implementation of the upper layers of
     the OSI protocol suite.  He was co-author of RFC1006 (ISO Transport
     Services on top of the TCP), and was a member of the IFIP working
     group committee whose efforts led to RFC987 (Mapping between X.400
     and RFC822).  He is currently an advisor to the National Science
     Foundation, serving on its Network Technical Advisory Group.  He is
     also an adjunct Assistant Professor at the University of Delaware.
     Rose received the Ph.D. degree in Information and Computer Science
     from the University of California, Irvine, in 1984.
