Practical Perspectives on OSI Networking (2 days)

Christopher W. Moore and Marshall T. Rose
The Wollongong Group, Inc.

Overview

     Based on international cooperative work, it is commonly
     acknowledged that protocols based on the Open Systems
     Interconnection (OSI) model and promulgated by the International
     Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the International
     Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) will eventually achieve dominance
     and enjoy even greater success than current networking
     technologies.

     This two day tutorial provides a practical perspective on the
     issues involved in developing and deploying OSI networks.
     Organized for those with a basic familiarity with OSI and with
     practical networking experience, the presentation will provide a
     more comprehensive understanding of the OSI Reference Model, OSI
     application and network services as well as a detailed
     understanding of various transition strategies which may be
     utilized in the realization of OSI networks from existing
     technology, in particular TCP/IP based networks.


What You Will Learn

     You will achieve a thorough understanding of the technology
     involved in developing OSI applications, building OSI networks, and
     transiting to (or coexisting with) TCP/IP-based networks.


Syllabus

     - OSI Application Services

       A discussion of current OSI applications and how they may be used
       to build new applications.  Of interest to both System
       Administrators and Application Developers, topics include:

	- The OSI applications environment: concepts, service elements,
	  and programmer tools

	- Use of standard OSI applications: the Directory, Message
	  Handling Systems, and File Transfer, Access and Management

     - OSI Network Services

       A discussion of current OSI network and transport technologies
       and how they may be used to build networks.  Of interest to
       Network Administrators, topics include:

	- The OSI network environment: concepts, building blocks, and
	  connectivity

	- Comparison with relevant TCP/IP technology: complexity,
	  administration, and performance


     - Transition from and Coexistence with TCP/IP

       A discussion of how existing, production TCP/IP-based networks
       may either transition to OSI, or coexist with OSI for maximal
       functionality.  Of interest to both Network Administrators and
       Systems Administrators, topics include:

	- Motivation and Background: concepts, terminology, and metrics
	  of comparison

	- Approaches: both protocol-based and service-based

	- Examples: scenarios for different environments


Who Should Attend

     This tutorial is intended for professionals interested in planning,
     implementing, or managing OSI networks.  A basic familiarity with
     networking and OSI is assumed.  Detailed knowledge of the protocols
     is not required.


Speakers

     Chris Moore is a Senior Software Engineer with The Wollongong
     Group, Inc., in Palo Alto, California, where his responsibilities
     include Directory Services as well as Message Handling Systems.  He
     is involved with national and international working groups in these
     areas and presently serves as Vice Chairman of the U.S. National
     Bureau of Standards Implementors Workshops special interest group
     on Directory Services.  Prior to joining Wollongong, Moore was a
     Systems Research Programmer with The University of Michigan
     Computing Center in Ann Arbor, Michigan.

     Marshall T. Rose is a Principal Software Engineer at The Wollongong
     Group, Inc., where he works on OSI protocols and transition
     strategies.  He is the principal implementor of the ISO Development
     Environment (ISODE), an openly available implementation of the
     upper layers of the OSI protocol suite.  He was co-author of
     RFC1006 (ISO Transport Services on top of the TCP), and was a
     member of the IFIP working group committee whose efforts led to
     RFC987 (Mapping between X.400 and RFC822). He is currently an
     advisor to the National Science Foundation, serving on its Network
     Technical Advisory Group.  Rose received the Ph.D. degree in
     Information and Computer Science from the University of California,
     Irvine, in 1984.
